# Chinese Class Notes
## Notes for 7/15/22
### About the king
#### The Kings' children naming convention
* Before qingshihuang, the king's children was called gongzi, but the heir was called zhoutianzi.
* In qingshihuang and after, there are lots of huangzi that are the king's children, but he can choose one to be taizi

#### How to king got his name
In the original kings, there is the 3 kings 5 gods. The qingshihuang thought that he was so good, so powerful, that he combined the kings and the gods in "3 kings 5 gods", and he was thus known as huangdi.

### BeiSong & NanSong
#### Where should the capital be?
Putting your capital in the middle is good, not just because the distance for trade is shorter, but also because there is lots of land so if there were invaders, it would be harder to attack the capital, because there is so much space between the capital and the enemy that you would have time to prepare.
#### Why BeiSong & NanSong?
Because one of the kings was a very bad king and he liked to draw. The problem is, that he did not know how to fight well. When the other countries attacked, he was super chill and got inprisoned in the other country. The remaining children and other advisors were paniking, and quickly ran to the west, to hangzhou.
The king that was a very bad king also made a type of "Chinese Character Font" called shoujinti

### The 3 evergreens
The 3 evergreens are pines, bamboo, and plum blossom.
People like drawling them. All 3 of them together.

### Bamboo
Bamboo can be made into LITERALLY ANYTHING.
Things bamboo can be made into:
1. Handbags
2. SOFAS
3. Cups
4. Flutes
5. Chopsticks
6. Floors
7. Tables
8. Entire homes
9. It can be pickled!
10. Or it can be dried!

The possibilities are endless!
## Q/A

### How many wives can people have in old China?
Back in the day (After qin/han dynasty), people can only have ONE wife, but people can have lots of other women, and they are known as qie zi.
